Hey everyone.
Welcome back to
Boost Your Income With Bootstrap
to WordPress.
This lecture is very simple, and
we're gonna be coding the HTML for
the blog excerpts.
Okay, so let's code our blog excerpt HTML.
So, just so you know what we're coding,
it will be this right here.
We're gonna code this column right here,
all the way down.
These really are just copying and
pasting this first one,
so really the work will
just be right here.
And keep in mind,
there's going to be no CSS in this one,
because we're going to leave that part for
the next lecture.
Cuz there are a few little more details,
so
that we can get this layout looking good.
So this one is just dedicated to HTML.
Let's do it.
Jump into your HTML Code Editor,
not your HTML editor, your code editor.
And right here, in this space that
you left in the last lecture,
we don't really need that much,
but just so you could see.
Let's start coding right here.
First thing we're going to
do is add a section, and I
wanna give it a few classes, so I'm going
to use Emmet to help me speed this up.
Section, the class of feature-image,
whoops, and feature-image-default-alt.
So let's split that out.
There we go.
There's my section.
And I'm also gonna give it the data-type,
cuz this is gonna be parallax,
remember, background and
data-speed, whoops, two.
So it's gonna be a little
bit slower of a speed or
quicker, I believe,
cuz we're dividing by two.
Okay, in level one, heading we're gonna
give that a page class of page title.
Then just say blog, very simple.
Okay, now we won't see anything
there if we refresh that.
We won't see any backgrounds or anything,
because the CSS we'll leave for
the next lecture.
Great.
So we have that.
Now, let's add an HTML comment, and
this will be blog content, okay.
All right, in here let's add a div
with the class of container.
There we go.
And in here, we're gonna add a row,
also with the ID of primary.
There it is.
And then we're going to utilize
the HTML Five tag called main,
I don't know if you'd
known that one before.
But we'll use that, we'll give it the ID
of content and also the class of col-sm-8.
There it is.
And then I'm gonna add this here.
Hopefully I'm not going too fast for
you, cuz I'm using Emmet so
I can speed up my HTML super fast.
The kind of purpose of this whole course,
is to show you how Bootstrap can
speed up your front end development.
So that once you're in WordPress,
you can Start creating
super robust CMS websites quickly.
Because Bootstrap helps you speed
up the coding of the templates, and
WordPress makes some
incredibly powerful websites.
But the kind of little bonus,
is that if you're using coda 2 you
can install the plugin called Emmet.
But I'm pretty sure you can use Emmet for
other code editors as well.
So go ahead and check that out.
But if you're using coda 2, and
you have Emmet installed good for you,
because it can help speed up your coding.
In my previous courses, I really like
mentioning that it's good to hand code,
and not use any assistance,
any coding assistance,
or code folding or auto-complete.
Because you need to learn muscle memory so
you can code properly.
But, once you're at a level where
you know you're good at coding, and
you know how to use your HTML and
CSS properly,
it can help you to speed up your
development, by using things like,
Coda 2s, autocomplete, and Emmet,
just to help speed up your coding.
Because in this world of web development,
The faster and
more efficient you are, the better.
As long as you don't sacrifice quality and
beautiful code.
And that's what I try and
make sure to teach.
Never sacrifice your quality
of your code for speed.
However, if you can have them live
in harmony, I think you're golden.
And you can make more money that way too.
All right, now that I went
on my little tangent there.
Let's keep going.
Let's give this the role
attribute of main, just for
some more semantic markup here.
And let's add an article
with the class of post.
This is where we're going
to add some more content.
So article, class sub posts.
In the article, we want a header tag.
And then within our header tag, actually,
lets keep adding just the basic
skeleton of this article.
Then we're going to have a div
with the class of post image And
then after our post image.
We will have, whoops.
Oh, my goodness, there we go.
Then we'll have a post-excerpt.
There we go.
>> And then after that,
I think we're good.
I'm just gonna add a comment here
after our article so we know.
Okay.
So, let's start off on our header.
And say level three heading,
we're gonna have an a tag and
that a tag will have a href,
which will link to, in our template,
it will just be post.html, because
we're gonna have a new page, post.html.
Where we have the full blog posts.
Okay.
But in WordPress,
keep in mind,
that's gonna be totally different.
It's gonna be dynamic link.
Blog title here.
All right.
Then after our level three heading,
we're gonna have another
div called post-details.
That is with all of that information.
With the author, the time,
and all that other stuff.
Okay, so post details,
let's start off with adding a span,
with the class of glyphicon,
and also the class of glyphicon-user.
So that will give us an icon,
using glyph icons with a little user, and
then a space, and
I'm gonna say Brad Hussey.
Okay, copy that, hope we save time,
we're gonna do another glyph icon,
and this one will just be time.
And let's just put the time tag here.
And say August 7, 2014.
Okay, and paste another time here.
Change this from user to folder-open-alt,
and then after that span tag,
we'll have a couple A tags,
and we'll say Tutorials.
Put a comma after that A tag, give another
A tag here, and this one will say coding.
So these are the categories.
Let's add another span tag here,
change this glyphicon to glyphicon tags,
and you guessed it, those will be tags.
So that's in text, saying tagged.
Then an A tag will be WordPress.
Comma after the A tag.
Another A.
And we'll say premium.
Again this one will say another tag.
Whoops.
And then we'll have one more.
Word Press tag here, yada, yada.
There we go just so you can see.
All right after all of those spans,
with the classic glyph icon.
Go to space, we're going to have a div.
The class of post comments-badge.
Don't forget to close that div.
Here we go.
Within that post-comments-badge,
we're gonna have an A tag.
Whoops.
There we go.
And that will have some goodies in here.
Be a span tag with a class of glyphicon.
And glyph icon- comments.
And then after that span, we'll say 168.
That's a lot of comments.
So there's a post comments badge.
Now we're down in our post image.
Throw an image in there,
assetsimagehero-bg.jpgalt hero image.
Post excerpts, so I'm just going
to add some more epsom in here.
And then right here int he last line,
I'm just gonna take some out and
I'm gonna go, dot, dot,
dot, and then an A tag,
and the A tag will link to post.HTML.
Continue reading, and then an RA quo.
Great, save that, let's just
have a look to see what happens.
There we go.
So we have our blog title,
this is our header up here, this whole
thing is the article, this is the header,
these are the post details,
this is the feature image,
the excerpt, and then the more,
the read more link, continue reading.
Okay, so why don't we just copy
that a couple of more times.
So this whole post, we're gonna copy it,
because we're gonna have a couple more,
two more to be exact.
So I add another one here,
and another one there.
You can go ahead and change the titles and
whatever if you want.
But you don't necessarily have to,
because you're not gonna be
using these additional ones.
You're just gonna be using
the single template here,
because WordPress will dynamically
generate all of the additional ones.
But, just so
you can see what your template looks
like it's good to have some examples.
Okay, so that's it for
the coding the HTML for the excerpts.
In the next lecture we're going to start
coding the CSS for this section, so
that we can look a little
bit more like this.
Quite pretty.
[MUSIC]